Tenali Rama and The Three Dolls

The great king Krishna Deva Raya had a lot of wise ministers in his
court. The wisest of them was *Tenali Rama*.

One day, a merchant came to the king's court.  He saluted the king and
said, "*Your Majesty, I have heard from many people that you have very
wise ministers in your court. But with your permission, I would like to
test the wisdom of your ministers*."

\"*Go ahead *\" said the King. 

The merchant gave the king *three dolls that looked identical*. 

He said, "Though these* dolls look similar, they are different *in some
way. If your ministers can *find out the difference, I will bow to their
wisdom*. But if they can't, I will assume that there are no wise
ministers in your court. I will be back in *seven days* for the answer."

Tenali Rama was sick and he was not available in the court.   At the end
of three days, *none of the ministers could figure out the difference*. 

The king got worried and went to visit Tenali Rama . 

He said to him, "Tenali it is a *matter of our honour now*. Since no one
has been able to find the solution, it is up to you now. You have to
find the difference between these dolls." 

The problem proved difficult for Tenali too, but at last, he was able to
figure out the difference. 

He went to the court with the three dolls on the day that the merchant
had to return. Then, he announced in front of the whole court that he
had found the difference between the dolls. 

He said, "*These three dolls are different because one of them is good,
one average and one bad*." 

When everyone asked Tenali that which doll was which, he showed them
a *tiny hole that was present in the ears of each of the dolls*. Then,
he took a very *thin wire and put it in the hole of the first doll's
ear.* The wire came out from the *doll's mouth*. He did the same with
the second doll and the wire came out from the doll's *other ea*r. In
the third doll,the *wire went to the heart and did not come out.*

*\"So , can anyone tell me which Doll is which ? \" *Tenali said

There was a minister in the court who was very jealous of Tenali Rama. 

He laughed derisively. 

\"*That\'s easy*\" he said . 

 "In the *first* doll, the wire went in through the ear and came out
through the mouth. So, this doll is *bad* as it represents people
who *cannot keep a secret*. In the *second* doll, the wire came out of
the other ear. So, it is *average* and represents harmless people
who *do not understand what is said to them*. The *third* doll, in which
the wire went to the heart and did not come out,
represents *good *people who will *keep the secret* that you tell them."

The king, the merchant and all the courtiers were very impressed with
this wise answer. He jealous minister beamed. 

Then Tenali said, "But there can be *another explanation too*.
The first doll represents *people who gain knowledge and spread it among
others,* so it is *good*. The *second* doll represents *people who do
not understand what they are taught,* so it is *average*.
The *third* doll represents *people who have knowledge but keep it all
to themselves.* They do *not teach anyone anything* and so they
are *bad *people \"

Moral

The personality  of the person reflects through his thoughts.* If you
are crooked, your thoughts will be crooked and if you are straight and
fair, your thoughts will be likewise**.*** 
